Just to remind everyone : the video is a debate, a discussion between 4 members of a panel and the Chronicle, the supervisor.
There were 2 teachers and 2 students, one of whom that had started helping his teachers following summer classes and giving feedback 
for the end of the year. The other student went to the same university as one of the teachers was teaching to, so they'll have
crossed opinions. 

1st TPoint : Taylor Trigo-Edwards, the first students I talked about, explained that, for online classes, expectations had to be lowered
on both sides of the class. What I mean is teachers had to expect less from students, and students had to expect less from the teachers,
because a sudden change of this scale in the ways of teaching and learning made everyone completely overhaul what they were thinking of
what a class would / should be. Noone had any idea : Taylor explained that all of his teachers had the same idea to keep students
working : switching to essay mode rather than longer "open-book"-type exams. This way the teacher can honestly see if the subject has 
been digested, but it might cover less of the subject and some people are not good at writing essays... What would you choose ? (As a 
professor, as a student)


2nd TPoint : The other student, Luna Laliberte (Rutgers U.), is answering a question from the Chronicle about student feedback and the
difference for the student between synchronous and asychronous classes. First, she explains that synchronous lectures where only the 
teacher talks are pretty much pointless, because it's just a teacher reading out of a book, but without student feedback (even visual, 
which is very important), so they can do it for themselves outside of class. The thing is if they don't understand what they're
reading at home, they can ask questions the next session (indeed they have to have read it before), but if the teacher just reads out aloud
to the class, and there's no student feedback, they will just think everyone understood what they said, and students won't ask questions
live (mostly). So first solution proposed by Luna : preparing talking points, points of discussion beforehand and the class is only a debate 
between the students overseen by the teacher. This way they can explain or correct information during the debate, and it fosters student
interaction in those times. And if this kind of debate becomes a class routine, then every student knows this is how to get their 
participation points and everyone wins.

(I'm cutting this second part : some professors are using group projects as a way to bring students back into a sort of classroom space.
But as Luna mentions, group projects aren't really effective in like remote learning environments. It's more preferable to have a sort
of guided exercise on the zoom, and every student will like it more than a semester (or a 2-semester long project, hello PACT...) long 
project. You can't have a room expecting the same from everyone just because they're faceless and micless on the zoom. Except if the 
work is very guided, and the outlines are clear, and the path is clear : this way you can expect something from students, but other than
that, students would prefer keeping away from group projects, that are very difficult to get rolling when working from home.)
Yes, we are having online teaching, but in times of pandemic, which is something. 

3rd TPoint : A question was asked to one of the teachers, Vikki Katz, going to the same University as Luna : what did the survey on
the 3600 undergraduate students reveal ? I think the way the survey was done is interesting : only closed-end questions but for the 
last one, asking students if some questions that they felt important went missing, or points just quickly mentioned that needed
more thinking than that. And 5 lessons stood up from the rest, 5 student driven suggestions themes that came out : NO GROUP PROJECTS
UNLESS ITS SHORT AND LOW STAKES. Semester long projects that are high stakes ? Not a good idea. Putting students in discussion rooms
for 20 minutes on a work then coming back to the main room to discuss with everyone ? Great idea. The first type of group projects 
creates resentment more than a class feeling. Students don't think they're part of a bigger community than themselves when working 
on a big project, they just resent their school for keeping those projects even though these are trying times. The time they spend
on a group project they don't believe in is time completely wasted, and worse, they will feel like they've blown up their entire grade
for the semester and they won't pass (exactly my case and my opinion). So this time could be used for something more interesting and 
less stressful like shorter-term projects with lower stakes.
Another very interesting thing the survey revealed is that students that had classes with teachers that let them speak between themselves
(not like inappropriate chattering, I'll explain) felt their anxiety decrease. And Mrs. Katz also felt that it helped reduce student 
anxiety when she did it herself. For example, she took 5 minutes at the very beginning of the class everytime to ask an open, stake-free
question that students will answer between themselves, like "if you coulf be anywhere in the world right now, where would you be". This
helps students know each other, and feeling in a group. It helps them speak to one another, so they keep honing their social skills
in these, again, very trying times. This 3rd point is really the core of the problem between what students want and what students get. 